Babel (#14)
tomeshnet/toronto-community-network-docs: src/network/protocol-babel.md

# Babel

> [Babel](https://www.irif.fr/~jch/software/babel/) is a loop-avoiding distance-vector routing protocol. It does link cost estimation and redistribution of routes from other routing protocols. 

Reviewer: This description is pretty technical, maybe explaining it a bit more would be good?

> The network uses [jech](https://github.com/jech/babeld) implementation of Babel service called babeld. Updated packages for Debian can be found at the tomesh Debian [repository](https://repo.tomesh.net/repos/apt/debian/pool/main/b/babeld/). These packages are compiled from source and packaged using scripts in the [mesh-packages](https://github.com/tomeshnet/mesh-packages/tree/master/packages/babeld) github repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The network uses the [reference implementation](https://github.com/jech/babeld) of Babel called babeld. Updated packages for Debian can be found at the Toronto Mesh [Debian repository](https://repo.tomesh.net/repos/apt/debian/pool/main/b/babeld/). These packages are compiled from source and packaged using scripts in the [mesh-packages](https://github.com/tomeshnet/mesh-packages/tree/master/packages/babeld) GitHub repository.
```

> Package for EdgeRouter X/SFP with UI can be found at https://github.com/darkdrgn2k/RouterX-Babeld-Package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The package for the EdgeRouter X/SFP with UI can be found at https://github.com/darkdrgn2k/RouterX-Babeld-Package .
```

Prototype babeld configuration can be generated at http://node2.e-mesh.net/CONF/ for both OpenWRT and Linux.

> ## When is babeld needed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## When is Babel needed?
```

> Babel is only required when your node routes IPs or a subnet that was not provided by a remote node.

Reviewer: If you could expand more on the purpose of Babel that would be good.

## Babeld console

> Depending what port the service started on (`local-port` or `-G` options) you can access babeld's console using on of the following. (assuming 999 is the port)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending what port the service started on (`local-port` or `-G` options) you can access babeld's console using on of the following (assuming 999 is the port).
```

- `nc :: 999`
- `telnet :: 999`

> **NOTE** some distributions `nc` does not support IPv6 and it will not work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that some versions of `nc` do not support IPv6 so that command will not work.
```

> The command `dump` in the console will list all the currently known data points of babeld.
> 
> ### Explanation of dump
> 
> `add interface <INT> up true ipv6 <IPv6> ipv4 <IPv4>`  

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Dump Command

The command `dump` in the console will list all the currently known data points of babeld.

`add interface <INT> up true ipv6 <IPv6> ipv4 <IPv4>`  
```
